-Henna?
-Yes?
-Can you fix my hair?
-Okay.
Hi! What's up?
I'm at a shoot.
No, I can talk.
They're setting up the lighting.
Just a minute.
It's an old house in North Calcutta.
"Lingering Doubt".
Come on, not lingerie! 'Lingering'...okay?
It's a serious film, dude!
Today?
No, there's a premiere party today.
As if your picture never gets printed on page 3!
Tomorrow?
Hold on...
-Henna?
-Yes?
-Please hand me my diary.
-Yes.
Ma'am, the shot is ready.
You are admiring the necklace
in front of the mirror.
The trolley will follow you.
You should look quite happy and mushy.
-Shall we go for a rehearsal?
-Yeah, yeah, please.
Trolley.
Silence!
Go on, go on...that's it.
This is the last mark.
-Okay?
-Yes.
DIRECTOR: DEBABRATA RAY.
"Lingering Doubt"
Scene 12, shot one, take one.
Action!
Hey hey, hey!
-What happened?
-Get some water!
Welcome back after the break.
I'm Shonali...
Bringing you hot news and gossip
from the world of entertainment...
on your favorite program Shooting Star.
A very strange incident took place last week
during the shooting of the film "Lingering Doubt."
The lead actress of the film Madhumita
suddenly fainted in the middle of a shot.
Apparenly, she saw the reflection of an
unfamiliar woman in the mirror.
Who was this mysterious woman?
Did Madhumita see a ghost?
PRESENTED BY SATYA FILMS
AND MOJO PRODUCTION
ANIK DUTTA'S MOTION PICTURE
THE FUTURE OF THE PAST
Excess in the name of progress
Bulldozers are razing all the old houses
Gone, gone, everything's gone
High rises, multiplexes and shopping malls
Promoters are taking over all the land
Calcutta is now a concrete jungle
Heritage is disappearing fast
As the old houses disappear
ghosts are in great trouble
No one is concerned about them
The future of the ghosts is doomed
Silent are the intellectuals
The civil society is also indifferent
The administration is quiet
Same with the media and the opposition
No hunger strikes or demonstrations
Because ghosts are not voters
Where will all the ghosts go?
This film was made to protest against all this
There, park in front of that gate ahead.
What a house!
But it's not that well-maintained.
That's what happens
with disputed properties.
But I guess they've renovated the interiors
since people shoot films here.
It's been closed for almost a year.
Remember the Madhumita incident?
Which incident?
Oh, the "ghost" affair?
Just imagine!
Yeah, Sudhir?
Yeah, yeah.
This is Nantu speaking.
Yes, we've already reached.
Sir, we production managers are
extremely punctual.
Let me see.
Okay, we'll wait.
Is Madhumita going
through such a PR crisis?
Why such cheap publicity?
Well, whatever it was, it worked.
Check out the TV channels, newspapers...
Ghosts intrigue everyone!
It's great for publicity.
Hence, the popularity
of ghost stories!
Yes, numerous films too.
But what about the caretaker?
He is just about to reach.
A round of tea, meanwhile?
A shop nearby makes awesome tea.
We'll do all that later.
Is that your caretaker "framing" in?
Yes.
Good morning, sir!
Good morning.
Let me introduce you guys.
This is Sudhir...
a very amiable person.
He's in charge
of the Chowdhury House.
This is Ayan... Ayan Sengupta.
Our director.
- Hello.
What films have you made, sir?
Haven't made a feature film yet.
I make ad films and stuff.
Commercials.
Oh, commercial films?
No, ad films...
The ones that come
in between TV shows.
Oh... Publicity.
This is Rinka,
our assistant director.
- Hello.
What a waste of such an enormous house.
Almost all of it is locked up.
Just take a look inside,
the space is amazing!
This house is
over 250 years old!
Wow!
Are ceremonies still performed here?
Yeah, sort of.
Used to be quite an ordeal earlier.
Family members would come
from all over.
Everybody would be
in festive spirits.
The best artisans
would make the idols.
Hundreds would feast for days.
Theatre... music...
every evening!
Now we do as much as we can.
Otherwise, it would have been sold
a long time ago.
Only if Sumit had arrived...
- Are you expecting anyone else?
- Yes.
Our DOP, Sumit Ray.
D...DOP?
Cameraman.
- Oh.
- Our cameraman, Sumit Ray.
What kind of place
are you really looking for?
This house is quite spread out...
Inner palace...
Outer palace...
Prayer room...
- Kitchen...
- What we actually need is a verandah.
Oh.
It would be great
if the flooring is checkered.
But it'll be great
if it's a little less run-down.
You'll find it in the new palace.
Great!
Darpa Narayan Chowdhury had built it
to entertain English guests.
Really?
This old section was constructed
about 50 years before that.
That's the prayer room.
Come.
This way.
I love wandering
around these old houses.
It's rather thrilling.
I would like to take a tour
of the entire house.
I'm here for about an hour.
- We'll cover a lot on the way up.
- Good.
- Come, Rinka.
- Hmm.
Watch your step.
Check out the stain glass work?
Yeah, it's fantastic.
You won't get these nowadays.
This new portion has been repaired
and painted for shooting purposes.
The architecture here is quite different.
Yes.
These aristocratic houses are an eclectic
hotchpotch of architecture from various periods.
This side is pretty interesting.
- Let us take a look at that side.
- Yes, let's.
- We'll take the shots here, okay?
- Okay.
- Hold on to these.
- Sure.
The actor will be resting
on a recliner...
- Right here, okay?
- Okay.
We'll get the entire depth
at the back.
And the shadow of the railing pattern
on the floor will be superb!
Nice.
Your laptop has the script
and the storyboard.
Should I switch it on?
It's all stored in my head.
Once Sumit gets here...
we'll finalise the shot divisions.
Okay.
Listen, we still have 15 minutes.
Let's check out the rest
of the house.
You go ahead, I'll be right there.
These people will do anything
for publicity!
Nantu, don't gossip!
Sudhir...
Let's complete our "conducted tour".
Yes... Let's go.
Ayan, I was actually telling him
about that case.
After the rumour about the ghost...
people come here a lot less
to shoot films.
- Oh.
- Yeah.
It's good in a way.
The house belongs
to 12 ghosts!
Nobody gets paid directly
in any case.
It's directly despoited
with the arbitrators.
And that's used to pay the taxes
of this house.
Are you sure
the ghost stories are rumours?
There must be a few
in such an old house!
- Well said!
- You don't say!
It's definitely haunted.
The founder of this palace
couldn't enjoy it for very long.
Oh!
I've heard from my ancestors...
Once he had arranged
for a dance extravaganza...
and was instantly titled
the "Raibahadur"
Let's go.
Rinka...
Yes, coming.
Let's check out that side first.
Here, take this.
You can smoke
in front of others!
Don't roam around
in this haunted house!
That's crap.
Check out the hall.
Just amazing!
Is this a hall or a music room?
Yes, dancers used to perform here...
a lot of famous artistes.
- Let's move on.
- Yes.
- That matter's settled, right?
- Yeah, it's not an issue.
You're yawning a lot...
Were you out late last night?
Not exactly...
I stayed up working
on my storyline.
I have a meeting with a producer tomorrow
about the feature film.
Really? That's great!
Don't get excited yet.
Let's see if the producer likes it.
You're going to make something artsy,
I'm sure.
What makes you say that?
Do you know what my film guru,
Satyajit Ray, has said?
"Film is the highest form
of commercial art".
A producer is going to spend tons
of money...
I can't make an esoteric film.
I want to make a film
which I'll enjoy watching myself.
Ayan, how about a ghost movie?
There hasn't been a good Bengali one
in ages. The public will--
You've settled the money matters I hope.
That won't be a problem.
I've given him a lot of work before.
We go way back. Don't worry.
Try and get the work done
by evening.
You won't find anyone
after seven o'clock.
The ghosts might be a nuisance
in the middle of the shoot!
No way.
We'll start real early.
I just can't get Sumit
on the phone.
Apparently, he's
in an unserviceable area.
He should have been here by now.
Normally, he isn't late.
Relax. I'll try again.
Yes, try.
Rinka, let's get on
with the work.
We should finish the detailed list
of furniture and props.
There are quite a few
antique pieces here.
We need a recliner
and a marble-top coffee table...
and tea in bone china cups.
Talking about tea...
I think we could do
with some right now.
Nantu, tea break!
Okay, okay.
That's alright.
I got through Sumit, finally.
His train was late
and there was no network coverage.
Oh...
Our camera man is directly coming
from an out-of-town shoot.
The train is a little late.
Hope you're not
in a hurry?
In fact, I am.
There's a hearing in the High Court
regarding this house.
I've been given the
Power of Attorney.
I have to go.
This work is killing me!
Maintaining this house is not easy!
Why don't you rent it out
for TV shows?
Currently, two period dramas
are being filmed.
I'm handling the production
for one.
Excellent pay!
Monthly contract.
Who cares?
I doubt this house will last very long.
The promoter is just waiting
for his chance.
Any day now the house
will be broken down.
Weren't you saying
that this house has a story?
You bet it does!
A unique history.
This is a cursed house...
Cursed from day one.
The landlord Darpa Narayan Chowdhury
had earned the title of "Raibahadur"...
shortly after the Sepoy Mutiny.
After 1857?
Yes.
On his way to collect revenue...
he got killed by bandits.
He could not enjoy the palace
that he had built himself.
Who knows...
Maybe his discontented soul roams
around the corners of this house!
Jesus!
Hello...
Hello?
Yes, tell me...
S**t, it got disconnected.
Spook call?
No... Sumit was trying to call.
Ayan, please change this ring tone.
Man... I got so startled!
Really!
Such a spooky ring tone!
Hmm...
I would never have made films
if it were not for this spooky spirit.
Do you know whose voice this is?
Satyajit Ray.
Yes, Sumit, I can hear you.
Tell me.
Yeah.
What?
Rail blockade?
- Oh, s**t...
- Not again...
Where?
Bhringigram?
Bhringigram as in Nandi-Bhringi?
Against land acquisition?
What do we do now?
The shoot is on the day after.
It won't be possible tomorrow.
I have a very important meeting.
You'll come by car?
Will you get one?
How long will it take you?
Two hours?
But we need to...
Okay, I'll try
to get permission.
Give me a call once you leave.
Can you leave the keys
with someone?
There was a security guard.
But the ghosts scared his away.
I'm the sole keeper now.
There is a family
of heirs living behind.
But they take no responsibility.
The house is stuffed with antiques...
How come it's left empty?
The most valuable items are actually
underneath the house.
Hidden treasure?
According to rumours, pitchers filled
with gold coins are planted underneath.
Hidden treasure?
Wow!
Gold coins from the British era were discovered
while fixing the water pipes.
Yes, tell me.
Got it? Brilliant.
Truck?
Wow!
Okay, come over.
I'm here, waiting.
Call me
if there's a problem.
Okay, great.
Sir, I'm sure you can understand
that we are stuck.
I understand
but how can I wait?
It's a court matter, you know.
Could you please rely on me
and give me the keys?
I'll take full responsibility
and drop it off at your place.
I promise.
This puts me in a real fix.
Sir, we go such a long way back.
I've done so many shoots here.
Sudhir, if you could be a little considerate...
Sir, please!
Okay, fine.
Close all the doors and windows
after you are done.
- Then drop off the keys at my place.
- Yes.
It's a huge responsibility.
Don't worry at all, sir.
I'm giving you my word.
I'll drop off the keys safely
at your house.
Sanguine!
Come, I'll explain everything to you.
- This is for the front door.
- Front door.
Close all the doors and windows
before leaving, okay?
Don't mention anything about the shoot
if any random people come by.
There are those heirs I mentioned...
They are real troublemakers!
No... There won't be any problems.
Be rest assured.
- Okay...so long.
- Yeah.
- Okay, sir, thank you.
- Okay.
Just like the Sikhs are known
for their fearlessness...
and the Gorkhas for their loyalty...
Bengalis are well-known
for troublemaking!
This is why they've gone
to the dogs.
Oh, s**t!
I have to be
at the police station by noon.
Need to get permission
for the next shoot.
You get going then...
Just hand me the keys.
Here are the keys.
- So, it's clear?
- Yes.
You'll manage by yourself?
Do something...
You guys take the car.
I'll take a cab
on my way back.
It'll take me a while
to go home and come back.
It's better I work
on the synopsis here.
What's the story?
Have I heard it?
I think I told you once sketchily.
It's about this guy
who plays in a band...
Oh...
His parents are very ambitious...
want him to become a doctor or an engineer.
Yup.
He... He starts taking drugs
or something like that.
I've added a new angle to it.
His girlfriend has a different crisis.
Hey...
If you start listening to the whole story,
there will be a crisis on the day of the shoot.
- Come on, let's get going.
- Let's go.
I have to go to the dresser.
Leave this here.
You...
- You'll remember to take it?
- Hmm.
- Sure?
- Absolutely.
- By the way...
- Hmm?
Won't you feel scared
all alone in this haunted house?
No ghost can come near him
with rum by his side!
What?
I had an overnight shoot
the day before yesterday.
You know I am
quite a fan of rum.
So, I can't do
without a drink or two.
I still have half a pint left.
Do you want to keep it?
You can take a quick swig
if you feel scared.
I won't need it, thank you!
I have some green.
Oh!
- Really...you guys!
- Come on, now.
- Let's go.
- Bye.
Oh!
THE BATTLE OF PLASSEY
Hmm!
Yes, Sumit?
Where are you?
Oh God...
It's still a matter
of one and a half hours, then.
Okay, I'll wait.
This house is really interesting.
I'm exploring the surroundings.
You can't imagine the kind of things
that are scattered around.
An old edition of "The Battle of Plassey"
by Nabinchandra Sen...
a newspaper from 1971
that covers the death of a Naxalite leader...
I'm in a complete time warp!
Who's there?
I live here.
Oh.
Sudhir mentioned, in fact.
Huh!
What does he know?
How come you're here?
Alone?
I'm here for some work.
Waiting for someone.
Shooting?
Yeah...
So, what's your film like?
Social or commercial?
Or is it one of those intellectual, art films?
With messages and all!
No. None of those.
I was into films too,
at one point in time.
Really?
I was a member
of the Cine Club.
Fellini, Truffaut, Bergman...
And our very own Satyajit,
Ritwik, Mrinal...
Just brilliant!
What films they made!
I see that you're a real film buff.
What about contemporary film makers?
Such as Wong Kar Wai,
Tarantino, Almodóvar...
You must have seen their works?
Unfortunately, I haven't been able
to watch films recently.
So, what's your film like?
Mine is merely a film
on requisition.
Ad film.
Oh, for advertising?
Yes, indeed.
Slavery of consumerism!
Commodity fetishism!
The entire country is now filled
with brazen bourgeoisie.
You yourself mentioned Satyajit Ray...
He was also
from the world of advertising.
See, if we don't advertise
salt and soap, how will we survive?
And who exactly will produce
my independent film?
Is that so?
So you actually are interested
in making a feature film.
Definitely.
In fact, I have a story
in mind too.
It's called "Badly Bangali".
In fact, I'm meeting a producer tomorrow.
Great, so let's hear it!
If you don't mind, of course.
No, why should I mind?
The basic story revolves
around a guy.
The guy plays in a band...
- So--
- Band?
Marching band?
No.
Band...as in a music group.
Like The Beatles?
Yes, but they play Bengali music.
Bengali band?
Bit of an oxymoron.
Interesting, carry on.
Yeah...
The guy's parents want to realise
their unfulfilled aspirations through their son.
Now, this guy just can't relate
to any of this.
He is unable to compose songs.
He's in a sort of non-creative limbo.
And his girlfriend's parents want
to marry her off to a well-settled guy.
Old wine in a new bottle.
What happens in the end?
That's the problem.
I just can't figure it out.
I have introduced a number
of new characters...
Brought in a lot
of plot points...
There are crises, cinematic moments...
But I can't figure out the resolution.
I must come up
with something by tomorrow.
I have a tremendous story
for a film.
I was really into all this long ago.
Try me out.
It might just work for you.
Interested?
Hmm, why not?
A story idea is always welcome.
Besides, I'm stuck here
for at least an hour and a half.
What can be a better pass-time
than a story, hmm?
Then let's start the story
with a smoke.
Let's go.
Here you go.
No thanks, I have mine.
But...
Do you still get that brand?
The old houses of Calcutta
are vanishing rapidly.
From the two-century-old houses
of North Calcutta...
to the Art Deco houses
of South Calcutta...
The thrust of "progress"
has knocked them all out.
From British rule to self rule,
we have now come to the rule of the promoters.
They'd break down the Writer's building
to make a sever-star hotel if they could.
Every day there's
a new condomonium...pandemonium!
Multiplexes and shopping malls
are springing up everywhere.
Only the heritage buildings...
And the properties
with succession dispute are left.
Although, they are very few in number
and in a run-down condition.
Now the question is,
who are in trouble here?
Bengalis?
I mean, the middle-class Bengalis...
who are being forced
to move to the outskirts?
No...
That problem was always there.
The demolition of these old houses
has caused trouble for the spirits of the city.
Hmm?
- Spirits?
- Hmm.
Oh, you mean the old Calcutta spirit?
No, sir.
By spirits, I mean ghosts.
Ghost.
Spirit.
They are in utter ruins.
Are you serious?
Absolutely.
All these old, abandoned houses
of Calcutta were the hub of these ghosts.
Some were famous places.
Like the old radio station
at Gurstin Place, the National Library, etc.
These and other abandoned houses
were the refuge of the ghosts.
Today, those ghosts are
in dire crisis.
Today, they are homeless...
moving from one haunted house
to the other.
The few houses that remain are not enough
to accommodate them all.
Yet, nobody seems to be bothered
during this dark hour of the ghost society.
The government isn't bothered
about rehabilitating them.
There are no rehabilitation packages.
There are no demonstrations in protest.
The politically aware are also quiet.
Processions, candle light vigils...
Nothing!
Ruling party, opposition...
Us, them...
The civil socity, the erudite...
Everyone's indifferent.
The media couldn't care less.
Beacuse...
Viewership does not depend
on ghosts.
Right...
Because they are not consumers
or voters.
Hmm.
At such a critical juncture,
the story begins.
It's actually based
on this Chowdhury residency.
Hmm.
I sense a political satire.
But I don't believe
in delivering an overt message.
I like somewhat layered films.
No... My story has many layers.
Hmm?
And it has enough
commercial ingredients as well.
Crime, passion, thrill,
romance, music and dance.
They make for
quite an entertaining pot-boiler.
Really!
Let's hear it.
The story begins
with Darpa Narayan Chowdhury.
I think Sudhir was talking about him.
Yes.
Having impressed an Englishman,
he had just received the title of "Raibahadur".
It was the festive season.
Okay.
The religious rituals had begun.
On such a day...
Greetings, Master.
Master?
Hmm?
Back in the village, they're saying...
That...
What?
They are saying...
They can't pay their taxes
because the birds have eaten all the grains.
Oh.
Huh?
Are you serious?
In that case, who will pay
the government their dues?
My forefathers?
- Keeping taxes due is not a good deed...
- No...
Stop the drums!
Stop it now!
The birds have eaten up the grains,
how will the taxes be paid?
Bishe!
Get the carriage ready.
Get it ready!
Bunch of scoundrels!
Let me get back from the village.
You'll be fired then.
- You rascal, get the carriage out!
- Get it ready!
Will I reach tomorrow?
Yes, Master.
The carriage will take you to the village
and then you can take a palanquin.
Why did you stop?
We have to cross this dangerous forest
by evening.
Why's everyone silent?
All of you have to visit the loo together?
Let's get going.
You'll get a reward--
Who's there?
Who are you?
What do you want?
- They call me the "Noshu" bandit.
- Hmm!
We are devils personified!
- Do you know I'm "Raibahadur"?
- We sure do!
That's why you're loaded!
Beware!
Save me, dear Lord!
Give us everything you have
if you want to save your life.
Each and every penny, or else...
Please let me go.
There's no point crying.
Hurry up and hand over all you have.
I think I'm going to faint.
I better flee.
After losing his life this way...
Chowdhury's spirit bagan
to haunt various houses.
He finally settled
in his very own Chowdhury Palace.
There was another house like this
called Imperial Palace.
It was just after the partition
of Bengal.
Sir Ramsay used to stay there.
The way he showed off,
one would think he was the viceroy himself!
And that's precisely
what brought him down.
Is the name "Ramsay",
by any chance, inspired by the Ramsay brothers?
You've got it!
I had seen one of their film posters
when I was at college.
Mhmm.
"Honeymood of the Ghosts"
with the caption...
"Mountain of Corpses, Fountain of Blood,
Danger, Danger, Danger"!
Sir Ramsay had gone
to the riverside for some fresh air.
- Good afternoon, sir.
- Good afternoon.
On that very day, Viceroy Lytton had planned
to be there in his Phaeton.
Mistaking Sir Ramsay for the Viceroy,
freedom fighter Putiram Ghosh threw a bomb at him.
Hail Motherland!
Despite his accidental death...
Sir Ramsay's ghost continued living
at the Imperial Palace flamboyantly.
But his happiness did not last long.
A government office was set up there.
Sir Ramsay was in a deep dilemma.
- Hello, Mr. Booth.
- Good morning.
- You've got to help me out.
He got hold of his predecessor,
the ghost of Sir Booth...
(telephone conversation)
at an old cemetary.
Sir Wilkes Booth recommended him
to a trusted native landlord.
Excuse me, who is the landlord?
- I am the landlord, sir.
- I see, you are the landlord.
- Yes, I am, sir.
- Oh, it's you that Booth told me about.
Oh yes. Yes sir.
I'm so fortunate
that Sir Booth recommended me!
Come sir, come.
You're my master,
I'm your servant.
Booth sir calls me Darpa.
"Darpok",
meaning coward?
No, no. Darpa, sir.
Oh, Darpa.
Like Firpo?
- What does that mean?
- Darpa as in obedient, sir.
Darpa Narayan Chowdhury...
- Your most obedient servant, sir.
- Oh, I see.
Come, sir.
Come in.
Ramsay was welcomed
with great cordiality by Darpa Narayan Chowdhury.
Now let's come to the Forties.
Alright.
Keshab Narayan Chowdhury was the black sheep
of the Chowdhury family...
Wine, women, races, gambling...
He had done it all.
At last, after falling for a film actress named
Kadalibala, he invested in films.
Kadalibala?
Doesn't kadali mean banana?
So what?
Angurbala can be a name derived from grapes
then why not Kadalibala from bananas?
- Are bananas that bad?
- Not at all.
Besides, people go bananas
over actresses!
Anyway...
There was no playback singing
at the time.
And Kadalibala was famous
for her singing.
I won't give you my heart, won't give it,
won't give it away
If you want my heart,
Remember this my friend
If you want my heart
You will have to pay for it
You won't get it for free
Won't get it for free at all
I won't give you my heart, won't give it,
won't give it away
Cut.
Very good.
You won't get it for free...
I'm not asking it for free...
This bracelet, the ring on your nose,
the earrings you're wearing...
Have I gifted you all of it
for nothing?
Moreover, I'll sign the company papers
in your name, Kadalibala.
I love you madly.
I don't want your property, Keshab.
Just make me your wife...
and grant me a place
at your feet.
Have patience, Kadali.
I'll marry you soon.
Oh, stop!
Stop the car.
Why did you bring me here, Keshab?
This is your country house!
Stay here for now.
I'll marry you soon and take you home.
Don't forget me,
I beg of you.
Don't worry.
Keshab Narayan did not keep his word.
Thirty-three months went by
but Keshab didn't keep his word.
He kept making excuses.
Kadalibala was aging.
Her film career was
also almost over.
And then she found out...
that Keshab Narayan was getting married
to the daughter of an aristocrat.
Humiliated and heartbroken,
Kadalibala hung herself.
Where she was unable to walk
into as a bride during her lifetime...
Her tormented spirit took shelter
in that very house.
You didn't return, my love
You had given me your word
I'm all alone, grief-stricken
Time doesn't seem to pass by
You didn't return, my love
Life didn't bring us together
Maybe death will some day
I stare at the road, waiting
Singing my song of grief
I'm all alone, grief-stricken
Time doesn't seem to pass by
You didn't return, my love
You had given me your word
I'm all alone, grief-stricken
Time doesn't seem to pass by
You didn't return, my love
As interesting as the story sounds,
the production design will be really difficult.
We need to do thorough research
in order to recreate the various time periods.
- Props, furniture, costumes, everything--
- No, not at all.
A film about ghosts
does not require so much research.
I'll shoot Darpa and Ramsay's scenes
in a sepia tone.
And Kadalibala's scenes
in black and white.
Back projection, direct lighting.
Each character will have dual shadows, cast
on a hand-drawn backdrop of the sky.
We can play around
with the grey scale!
Good!
That means my story has managed
to excite your grey cells.
Now, cut to Calcutta
in the Seventies.
Those were times
of unrest.
Radio Peking announced the
thunderous roar of the youth.
A time when young men were being
indiscriminately killed the police.
This...
we'll capture
on a handheld camera.
Jerky movements.
Like Mrinal sen.
A-la "Calcutta '71".
It was the survival
of the fittest in Kolkata.
Corpses of young men
were being recovered everywhere.
Several political leaders were being killed
in mock encounters.
On such an encounter,
a guy called Biplab Dasgupta got killed.
Incidentally, he was the nephew
of this family.
Although he always looked down
upon his bourgeoisie uncle's family...
he ended up in this house
after detah.
And there would be frequent quarrels
between him and Darpa Narayan.
Very interesting.
It's not only people from various
socio-economic and ethnic backgrounds...
but there are people
from different time periods too.
Truly an ensemble cast.
Not just them...
As more old houses were razed,
more ghosts were drawn to this one.
In fact, it was getting difficult
to accommodate everyone!
Goodness!
So, how was the accommodation crisis
of the ghosts resolved?
- An interview board was set up.
- Ah!
Only those who passed the interview
would be allowed to stay in the house.
There were candidates
from all over the world.
They spoke diverse languages
and dressed in various attires.
(indistinct)
Why does he constantly
keep greeting me?
There's a great offer
on sub-zero fridges, sir.
The sub-zero agenda
is affordable cooling.
Keep this card.
I'll give you good discounts.
Next!
Hello, sir.
I am Khaja Khan.
I have fought
in the Battle of Plassey.
You were a warrior?
Despite your frail frame?
I was a special chef for the great monarch
of Bengal, Siraj Ud-Daulah.
Wow!
We'll get to feast on royal food!
Can you make kebabs?
Yes, sir.
Kebabs, Biryani, Chaap, Musalam...
So, how did you die?
I wasn't a traitor.
I refused to side with Mir Zafar.
I sacrificed my life
for my king.
When everybody began
to betray...
I put down my kitchen knife
and picked up the sword.
I hate the British!
Is he talking about us?
Yeah...
Praising you!
I used to live
in a palace at Murshidabad.
They built a museum there...
I became homeless.
Let him stay.
We'll get some good food.
Although, I have gastric problems.
Next!
My name is Shapan Dey.
I was in sales
at a multinational company.
You know a sales person's life...
Convincing clients, reaching targets,
getting incentives...
My income wasn't bad.
I took a bank loan
to buy an apartment with a garage.
Then of course, I had to buy a car
and pay big installments.
I got three or four credit cards.
My wife Ratna is a shopaholic.
I would be busy with my work.
Didn't notice all that.
All of a sudden,
my company began downsizing.
I lost my job.
I was in huge debt.
The credit card company sent goons
who insulted me in front of my son.
Unable to take the humiliation...
I jumped in front of a subway train.
There's no credit
in keeping credit!
No vacancy.
Next!
My name is
Bhooth Nath Bhaduri.
I came from East Bengal as a refugee
after the 1942 riot.
India and Pakistan weren't
yet separate countries.
I built a house on Jadavpur Colony
by the railroad.
I had lost all my land
and property back at home...
and so, had to work as a salesman
of antacid pills on trains.
I was killed
by a running train.
I took shelter
on top of a tree.
But I suffer from arthritis.
It became really painful for me
to climb the tall tree.
Besides, the trees were being chopped off
to build highways.
There's no place left
for a ghost anymore!
I lived as a refugee
when I was alive...
Nothing's changed after death.
He's a quack... It might be good
to have him around.
Thank God!
Next!
I'm a poor man, sir. I lived
in Darbhanga district. My name is Atmaram...
Atmaram Pasowan.
I used to pull rickshaws in Calcutta
and would sleep on the sidewalk at night.
On the English New Year's eve,
I was sleeping in my usual place...
Suddenly, a rich man's son was drunk
and drove his SUV right onto the sidewalk.
And instantly your spirit was set free
from your body!
But how would a poor guy
like me know?
The sidewalk I used to live on
was first obstructed by a sign board...
and later, a flyover.
I have nowhere to go, sir.
We don't have our carriages here...
We could get some fresh air
with him around.
Yes, sir.
Next!
Brigadier Yudhajit Sarkar.
Awarded the Dharamveer Chakra,
an Indian bravery award.
Posthumous.
In the year 1999...
the enemy forces were continually bombing
from the other side of the LOC.
We had already reclaimed a large part
of the Dras and Batalik sectors.
We were carrying re-enforcements
for our troops in a convoy.
Suddenly, we were shelled.
I'm a martyr of the Kargil War.
Later I found out that the government
was doing some scam with our coffins!
I think he's the best person
to look after the security of this mansion.
Hmm, these are dark times.
Thank you, sir.
My name is Pablo.
No, not Picasso or Neruda.
Patranobis. Pablo Patranobis.
Both my parents are very competitive.
One's an engineer
and the other a doctor.
They had tried to realise their
unfulfilled aspirations through me.
Didn't work.
I love music.
Had a band of my own.
We had released an album too.
Only 13 CDs were sold.
A lot of money was wasted.
I was suffering
from serious depression.
Even attempted suicide twice.
Started suffering from writer's block.
I couldn't write lyrics
or compose melodies.
Then the usual...
I started taking drugs.
In small doses at first
but it gradually increased.
Unknowingly, I overdosed on heroine.
When the high subsided, I saw my cold body
lying flat with cotton wool stuffed in my nose.
While I wrote songs about how life sucks,
life itself turned away from me!
I think it would be nice
to have a musician amongst us.
What do you say, Darpa?
At one point, so many renowned musicians
from all over the country would perform here.
This kid is a musician.
Let him stay.
Thanks.
Nanook, Nanook.
What's this! A fur coat in this heat?
Is he mad?
Nanook...
"Mr. Nanook from Alaska.
"The haunted igloos have all melted
due to global warming.
"The Eskimos have come
to know that...
"Calcutta is a dying city.
That's why he wants to stay here.
I didn't understand a thing!
Nanook, Nanook.
No, we can't keep you here.
You stink.
You'd better find a place
in the hills.
Hi! My name is Koyel.
You must have heard about my dad.
Famous industrialist, O.K. Dhar.
From iron rod dealerships to I.T. companies,
he owns it all from hardware to software.
Last year he was also honoured
with the title of "Best Bengali".
And I was Daddy's darling.
He spoilt me with everything.
I even had a chauffeur-driven car
of my own!
I had put on some weight...
So I joined the gym.
That's where I met Sam.
Who?
- My gym instructor.
- Oh.
Man, what a bod!
And really charming.
I fell in love.
What wonderful moments we had!
We went out for three months
after which people at home found out.
That was it!
No more going out. They stopped it all.
They even confiscated my mobile phone.
But I was adamant.
I would only marry Sam Gonzalez.
They tried tempting me
with a lot of things.
When nothing worked,
they made Sam disappear!
I know exactly how ruthless Dad can be.
They thought that's
how they would sort everything out.
But they are very stupid.
Stupid and heartless.
But when I jumped
off the tenth floor, everyone cried a lot.
God!
Especially Dad.
I feel really sorry
for the girl, sir.
She reminds me
of my grand daughter.
She died of black fever.
That girl was my pet.
Let her stay.
She's a charming young lady.
She must stay.
The interview session ended.
With such a strange ensemble of ghosts,
Chowdhury Palace became a zoo!
Hey, Atmaram!
Where the hell are you?
Bring out your rickshaw quickly!
We have to go
to the market to buy fish.
- Hey, Atmaram!
- Who is it?
You are an absolute disgrace
to the society of ghosts!
Sleeping at night.
Very bad!
I'm not sleeping, sir.
Just resting a little.
Let's go.
We have to go to the market!
- To the market? This early?
- How is this early?
It's the crack of dawn.
Hurry up!
We'll get good Hilsa fish today.
Hilsa from the Padma river!
We'll steam it with mustard.
What a feast!
I'll eat Hilsa
after ages!
A ghost going to the market
to buy fish?
I've heard that they just extend their hands
and steal fish from the baskets!
Why will they need to 'buy' it?
They are 'Bengali' ghosts after all.
Nostalgia...
They have this compulsive need
to bargain with the fishmongers.
- Anyway, they got the shopping done.
- Hmm.
Hilsa fish, spinach, different kinds of herbs...
Everything had been arranged for!
The taste of Hilsa
from my Padma River is incomparable!
- Stop...you'll cross the front gate!
- Pardon, sir?
Nonsense!
You lack common sense!
Thank God you are now past tense!
Sir, I'm a poor guy...
Now take that thing out
from in between the legs.
What?
Oh... God...
Why are you just staring at me?
Take that thing out
from between the two legs.
God! No...
Not your thing!
Take my shopping bag out.
- Quickly!
- Yes.
Okay.
Now go straight up.
I've gone up way before, sir.
Sentimental talk, huh?
Like a Bengali romantic novelist?
What I mean is the second floor.
Go to the kitchen.
Doesn't understand anything.
Idiot!
Let's see what I can do
with the fish and mustard--
Hey! You bloody villager!
You low caste man!
How dare you come up here?
You are a Brahmin.
How can you give a low class guy such liberty?
What about you allowing
non-Hindus into your house?
All that's okay with you, huh?
Your only problem is with this guy!
Biplab is right.
You're still stuck
with a feudal mentality.
How can you believe in caste
and creed in the 21st century?
That mentor of yours, Biplab...
He never believed in God or ghosts.
Look at him today;
he himself has turned into a ghost!
Biplab has managed to justify ghosts
with his applied physics.
He doesn't believe
in charms and amulets.
And he certainly doesn't believe
in casted-based discrimination.
There's a song...
Stop it!
A donkey's braying
sounds more pleasant!
I have lost my life once...
I think I'll lose it again
after listening to your music!
There's nothing called culture here.
That's why I don't gel with anyone
apart from Biplab.
Everyone's sense of music is absolutely--
What you are singing, isn't melody.
It's cacophony!
If you must sing,
sing a proper song.
And here I thought there would be some
Indian classical music in the house!
It's the exact opposite!
I had a neighbour
when I was alive.
Just like you.
A cranky, old man.
He always objected
to our jamming sessions.
Heart problem apparently...
Said we were crossing the decibel limit.
He had even filed a FIR.
There's no relief even after death!
Tell me something...
Can you sing Indian folk songs?
Why do you need
to sing foreign songs?
Sing patriotic songs...
Perhaps the National Anthem.
- National Anthem, huh?
- Yeah.
You'll be shocked
to hear the remixed version!
Anyway, songs don't have
a national boundary.
From Santana to Sufiana...
A song is a song.
One should love it all.
Music is a universal language.
It's like...you know...
- He's started again!
- Where the hell did he go?
Are you into Western music?
I'll play some of our music.
Come on.
Should auld acquaintance be forgot
and never brought to mind
and days of auld lang syne
For auld lang syne, my dear
For auld lang syne
We'll take a cup of kindness yet
Memories of the olden days
How can they be forgotten?
Oh, those good old days!
There are no shopping malls around.
I want this house.
First class property!
Th-This is a very disputed property, sir.
Very problematic.
Problematic?
What are you there for?
And that lawyer is absolutely useless too.
He just extorts money!
I just need this house.
It'll be very risky!
I don't care.
We have to get this house in six months.
God! What's that smell?
Eeks! It stinks!
What is it?
Have you ever had poppy seeds
at home?
- Yeah.
- Poppy, not pasta.
Potato curry with mashed poppy seeds?
This is the same thing.
Poppy in a different form.
It stinks.
You sing Bengali songs really well!
- I thought you were into rock, heavy metal--
- My mom was a fan of Tagore's songs.
She is the one
who introduced me to the harmonium.
Can't believe you used
to play the harmonium!
Yeah.
Then she started pushing me
to build a career...
and the harmonium ended up
in the attic!
You'll get more takers of Tagore's songs here
than your kind of music.
I don't give a damn
about singing Tagore's songs!
For me, a song is an attitude.
It's a statement.
Oh please!
There's nothing cool about screaming
and head banging!
Totally distorted pronunciation.
Can't even figure out if it's English or Bengali.
And the lyrics are absurd...
"Here comes war, Budhha's laughing"
How can someone write a song
about a laughing Buddha?
-You won't get it with your 'Mills and Boons' head.
-Hey, I don't read 'Mills and Boons'.
It's an anti-nuclear song!
Atom bombs.
Anti-nuclear.
Clear?
Atom bomb?
Couldn't find any other subject?
Every song should have a
socio-political perspective.
Biplab says it's important in order
to understand culture and art.
Think.
Pratice thinking.
You're always talking
about this guy.
How come I never see him?
Where's the dude?
He's got a lot of work.
Doesn't have time
for these petty bourgeoisie ghosts.
He's roaming about
in deep, dark forests!
- Like Tarzan?
- Like Gechhodada--
Have you read
'Ha Ja Ba Ra La: A Nonsense Story'?
He's like that elusive character
in it, Gechhodada.
He's travelling all
over the country as we speak.
And he likes your songs?
Yes but he does not trade
in music.
He trades in guns.
Biplab says that "power flows
from the barrel of the gun".
Whatever! Your lyrics are nonsensical.
The correct phrase would be
'nonsense verse'.
Lewis Carroll's "Jabberwocky" is considered
a work of genius...
How come our lyrics are called gibberish?
Listen to our songs carefully...
Each one has an inner meaning.
A tram is running here and there
Inside it sits a sad orangutan
A scarf of deities around her neck
Angelina Jolie has come to Calcutta herself
Gosh! The string tore!
It's not the string's fault...
It couldn't take the sting of your lyrics!
I didn't get any inner
or outer meaning of it.
Why don't you write a nice, romantic song
instead of this gibberish?
By the way, we don't 'write' songs...
Songs 'happen' to us.
-Songs 'happen'--
-For me, the most romantic concept is revolution.
I can't take the cheesy stars
and flowers bulls**t!
Our love songs have to be sung
with the entire body.
Our love song is passionate, uninhibited.
You know, it's like...
Flowers, birds and the moon
Are things not so cool
Emotional overflow
Please keep it low
Flowers, birds and the moon
Are things not so cool
Emotional overflow
Please keep it low
Silly words, silly tunes, silly songs
Can't sing them sir
For public demand
Even if you say it's for the public's sake
Or that the song will be a hit and awarded
I will sing only passionate love songs
No silliness, no affection
I don't have a thousand words to say
It doesn't work that way
I want you, it's not just lust
Suddenly one day
I myself am a ghost
and that's the problem
God!
This is your romantic song?
Kadalibala is a better bet
for the stuff you're looking for.
I won't give you my heart, won't give it
won't give it away
I have already given my heart to you.
I used to watch all your films.
It all started
with your first film...
What they call love
at first night!
For heaven's sake!
All men are the same.
- I think someone's become senile.
- My hair might be greying now...
But I have been your fan
since I was a young man.
What great films you've acted in!
You were called the "human goddess"!
That's only on the big screen.
The film world is actually a filthy place.
My guru used to say...
"Everything lasts as long as you are in shape".
Are looks like a cup of tea?
That everything ends when it's over?
I think you are still beautiful.
It's too late now.
Late?
Everyone's 'late' here.
I am the late Bhooth Nath Bhadhuri.
You are the late Kadalibala Dasi.
Can I say something?
All men have the same thing to say,
"I love you"!
I'm sick and tired
of hearing the same old thing.
No, I was going to ask
if you have a photo.
What!
You sleazebag!
Saying such filthy things to me!
I'll teach you a lesson!
Hey, anyone around?
Madam, you're getting excited unnecessarily.
When did I say filthy things to you?
I was talking about a photo published
in the film magazines.
Oh, a photo?
Say that!
I would keep it
with me all the time!
I worship you.
How can I say anything filthy to you?
Kadaliya, my love.
Is Bhooth Nath bothering you again?
I'll teach him a lesson today!
Get lost!
A warrior without a sword!
Mind your tongue, Bhooth Nath.
This rose is for dear Kadaliya.
Big talk with a plastic flower
in hand!
Stop annoying me.
I have the fire of love
burning in my heart.
Grant the true love of this lover.
Accept this humble flower.
Dear Lord!
Such drama.
Grant the true love of this lover.
Accept this humble flower.
I'll feed you royal kebabs
with my own hands.
You'll need a purgative after that!
Tries to woo you everyday
with a rose!
Don't give him too much attention, Kadali.
You enemy of love, beware!
Like I care!
A soldier without a shield
or sword!
You're a wimp with a flower.
Bloody fool!
I have a headache.
I need some Eau de Cologne!
Quite a love triangle
you've got going there!
Both your admirers fight all day.
Why don't you tell me
which one you like?
- I'm used to all this.
- Oh...
When I worked my charm, everyone,
from the hero to the producer, would be at my feet!
Now all the dead, old men are after me.
But you have managed
to find a nice, young guy!
So you want a young boyfriend?
My, my!
It's fun to catch them
while they're still young.
I'm not that old myself.
Hmm... I understand.
But you have to be hip
and happening for that.
What are you saying?
Hip means buttocks, right?
Not that!
This outfit of yours
is totally out-of-date.
You need to get rid
of these old clothes and the way you talk.
Your jewellery just won't work today.
Are you serious?
These are made of pure gold!
Say goodbye to all that.
You need a makeover.
Makeover as in makeup?
This thing is a little more permanent.
Your look needs to blend
in with today's fashion.
- Do I tie it up? Or a bob cut?
- No!
You'll dress like me,
a pair of jeans to start with.
My God!
I thought they were men's pants.
A grooming course is a must.
This retro thing will just not work.
Retro thing?
Are you talking
about flirting?
It's the new-age flirting.
Get it, Kadalibala?
You've got to speak English fluently...
Use slangs like "awesome", "mind-blowing"!
You have to act like
you can't speak Bengali well.
After every sentence you should
add a "cool" or "hot".
Cool and hot as in...cold and hot?
Everyone knows that!
Now cool and hot mean
pretty much the same thing.
My God!
I had only managed to learn basic English.
Then I'd better get a hold
of Sir Ramsay.
Koyel...
You are really a jewel!
Bhooth Nath, don't you dare!
Look, here comes the duo.
now they'll duel!
Where are you headed, my love?
On my way to our foreigner friend
to learn English.
Don't learn that wicked tongue!
The English had first come to trade with us.
Eventually, they began to rule us.
Traitors!
Stop it.
You have no right to talk about loyalty.
It's because of you Muslims that I had
to leave my native land and become a refugee.
The partition took place
because of you.
Listen, you guys.
You claim to have had different kinds
of trees in your garden.
Did you have a red-light area
in East Bengal?
Yeah, we had them
in every house!
Don't listen to him, my love.
He is an idiot.
You a**, go off
to Pakistan!
Stop it.
I say, stop it.
Don't ever say such things, Bhooth Nath.
In the year 1999...
At Kargil...
Fighting alongside was my fellow,
Lieutenant Shahidul Islam.
In fact, he died trying
to cover me.
This country belongs
to all of us.
Communal harmony!
I have written a song about it.
Total cacophony, huh?
This is how Chowdhury and Company were
spending the days of their afterlife.
Suddenly, there was trouble.
Trouble?
In a haunted house?
Generally, ghosts cause trouble
in human houses.
It was exactly the opposite
in this case.
People were causing trouble?
By people you mean a party?
Yes but not a political party.
A shooting party.
(indistinct)
Until now, they were only
after the new palace.
Now they want to take
over the entire place!
This is a raucous every day.
We've tolerated this long enough...
Not anymore.
We need a solution.
Just look at what they've done
to the house!
I was a film actress too, you know.
Never seen such a mess before!
And the heroine is full
of hot air.
Such poor dialogue delivery.
I think I'll teach her
what acting really is!
- How about scaring them off?
- Scaring them?
It's not the British period anymore.
There's nothing called law and order.
They don't give a damn.
They blew smoke right into my face!
That's because they were
in a big group.
They are bound to get scared
if they are alone.
Idea!
You should go scare the heroine.
That's not a bad idea!
Every actress is nervous right
before a shot.
It's the best time
to scare them.
Exactly.
- In the year 1966--
- Oh, no!
Okay, fine.
Then let's begin the operation,
Heroine to heroine!
Yeah!
12 by 1 by 1.
Action.
The actress collapsed.
The shoot was cancelled.
Such stories spread quickly.
It was all over the studios.
The shooting parties stopped coming.
So, the residents of Chowdhury Palace were
in a festive mood.
Let's celebrate!
Cheers!
When I was alive, this house saw celebrations
throughout the year, a festival for every season!
I was given the title of "Raibahadur"
because of the grandeur of my ceremonies.
And he starts beating his own drum again!
Excuse me?
I meant there must have been drums playing
on such occasions...
Hundreds of them!
There used to be musicians
at the front door...
Gin, rum and fountains of other drinks
for the foreigners.
Seven-day feasts!
Dancers coming in from everywhere.
And because of that,
they wrote a satire on me.
Song?
More of a satire.
Anyway, forget it.
How about celebrating?
- Isn't it a little odd?
- What do you mean?
Ghosts celebrating a religious festival?
Atmaram?
Are you saying something to me?
I'm a poor man.
Shut up, you idiot!
Why can't ghosts have fun?
Tomorrow is the "festival of ghosts" anyway.
Right!
Sir Ramsay, what do you think?
I'm going to freak out!
Drink alcohol.
This red-faced gentleman behaves
like he's alive!
Yes!
You'll see live dancing too.
Okay then,
since Sir agrees...
Tomorrow night we'll celebrate
the "festival of ghosts".
We'll decorate the house
with lights!
Like Diwali?
Wow!
No one else's opinion counts, huh?
How democratic!
What a hassle!
It's not going to be
a religious ceremony anyway!
Then it's okay.
Let's keep things secular.
What do you say, Khan?
I died in the battlefield.
He says the same thing
over and over again.
Okay.
It'll just be a cultural event.
There'll be music too.
I'll be the DJ.
Wonderful!
Let's have our "Bhooth Chaturdashi"!
What's that?
The holy night of the ghosts.
Just like Halloween.
Oh, let's have a costume party.
What's that?
I've heard of the Congress party, Muslim League...
I've even heard of the Communist Party.
I've never heard
of a costume party though.
It means to go as you like.
We'd do it in nursery school.
Let's have it like a fashion show!
Fashion show?
Night show, matinee show...
I've heard of these.
What's a fashion show?
It's wearing all kinds of weird clothes
or not wearing any at all and walking on stage.
Why should I walk unnecessarily?
Bhooth Nath, models get paid
in thousands for it.
Just think about it...
How much people like Fa Hien, Megasthenes,
Huen Tsang would earn were they alive today.
- In the year 1992...
- There he goes again!
When I was posted
at Fort William...
we celebrated Independence Day
with a cultural event.
I was the organiser.
Cut it out!
Let's stick to the occasion.
What exactly can a military man do now
apart from bossing around?
Me?
I'll burst fire crackers.
The same hands that have released
rocket launchers will release fireworks.
Here goes!
Startled him!
We are the ghosts of Chowdhury Palace
We are notorious, we are weird
We ghosts have organised
This amazing event
This happening festival
Ghosts dancing about
We are notorious
We are weird
We are the ghosts of Chowdhury Palace
You won't get a haunted house like this
The king of all haunted houses
A ghoul or a demon?
Or the ghost of a Muslim?
What kind of a ghost are you?
What type of a ghost?
I died in an accident
Then became a ghost
All ye spirits, lift thee spirits
And let's raise a toast
O precious life
You left me, precious life
Thank God I'm dead
Now I don't have to care about you
O precious life
You left me, precious life
Thank God I'm dead
Now I don't have to care about you
All you ghosts put your hands together
Today we'll sing a "Qawwali"
Today we'll drink whiskey and rum
Today we are in high spirits
Is he killing mosquitoes?
What an idiot.
Clapping at his own song!
All you ghosts put your hands together
Today we'll sing a "Qawwali"
We'll have a blast
All of you keep watching
My hometown is Darbhanga
I feel more alive after dying
Better not mess with me
Or else, there will be trouble
My hometown is Darbhanga
I feel more alive after dying
Everything's on the move
When all of us start dancing together
We get the whole world moving
Touchables and untouchables
There's no difference
We are just ghosts
The ghosts of Chowdhury Palace
Ghosts, ghosts, ghosts
That guy is ambidextrous!
- What?
- Ambidextrous.
We are the ghosts of Chowdhury Palace
The event was a grand success.
Sir Ramsay was overjoyed.
So much so that he wanted
to entitle everybody "Raibahadur".
But Darpa Narayan didn't
like the idea much.
He settled for a picnic the following Sunday
to keep the festive spirit alive.
So far so good.
But there's something odd...
Highly suspicious!
How come Biplab isn't present
in any of these events?
Patience, my friend.
Ages may pass before "biplab",
meaning revolution comes!
Anyway...
What was I saying?
Yes, the picnic.
A picnic for ghosts!
(radio playing)
Here you go, ma'am.
- Sir?
- Hmm? Thank you. Cheers!
- Sir.
- Hmm.
-Sir?
-Hmm.
That's my point.
You're cheating!
-Cheers!
-It's not cheating at all!
Hey! Come here.
- Watch out!
- Sorry!
Let's end the game here,
at love all.
Please...
Don't even mention the word love.
You're the most unromantic
person I've met.
(singing)
Who's disturbing me
in the middle of a picnic?
My God!
Girls always want things to be lovey-dovey.
God, it's a disease!
Why do you hate girls so much?
Did anyone dump you?
Quite a few!
All girls are not the same.
I can see that.
You killed yourself for a guy
instead of looking for him, you're hitting on me!
What a hassle!
What's wrong?
I found out that Sam got 10 lakhs
from Dad and took off to Australia.
And guess what?
He's found himself a rich, foreign chick there!
I'm sorry.
This food is amazing!
Must be the cooking oil.
Tell me something...
Why did you quit cooking?
To become a soldier?
Get lost!
Sorry.
I know I've made fun of you.
But one has to admit...
You "faak,"
or cook, very well.
Mind your language, Bhooth Nath!
Why?
I was just saying
that he is a brilliant cook.
Bhaduri, you are quite a foodie.
I'm from East Bengal.
You bet I'm a foodie!
If only you had tasted steamed Hilsa fish
from my hometown...
Hilsa is tasty...
But it pales in comparison
to prawns.
- Prawns?
- Definitely.
Nothing's tastier than prawns cooked
in a delicate coconut cream sauce!
You're being childish about this.
Nothing compares to Hilsa fish
from the Padma river.
What do you know of prawns?
I understand it better than you!
Prawns are water insects.
Prawns are insects?
You are a complete idiot.
Bloody Bengali from the East!
Damn you Westerners!
You guys put more sugar
than salt in your food!
And you brag
about water insects!
- Hey! Get lost.
- Huh?
Get out!
Get the hell out now!
I definitely will.
I've no intention of staying in a place
where my Hilsa fish is insulted.
Just go.
Do we really need a regional strife?
East Bengal versus West Bengal?
Chowdhury Palace is
in big trouble!
- What's wrong?
- What are you saying?
Exactly what you're hearing.
We were able to live there peacefully
because it was disputed.
Now the legal issues have been resolved
in an out-of-court settlement.
All the owners are jointly giving it
away to a promoter.
- What?
- Yes!
The house will be demolished
to build a mall.
- What?
- No, it's a different kind of a mall.
This is a shopping mall.
Everyone used to taunt me,
calling me a "girl for sale".
Now it's actually going
to come true!
They'll get rid of us along with the house.
I'll become a refugee again!
Kick me out
of my own house!
Had this been the British period,
I would have hanged this guy to death.
Who's taking over the place?
A man called Bhutoria,
meaning ghost-chaser.
No wonder he's trying
to chase us ghosts away!
But how did you find out?
Since the responsibility of the security
of Chowdhury Palace was on me...
I had set up a surveillance camera.
I received an MMS alert
some time back.
Bhutoria and company have gathered
in front of the main gate.
My God!
We should get back right now.
Comrades, let's go.
Come.
There! There!
- Where is the guy?
- Over there.
He is the bloody promoter.
He's come prepared
with a lawyer.
Who is that tiny guy?
His sidekick.
We should beat the hell out of them!
Here you go Bhutoria...
Now it's all yours.
At last.
Ganesh Bhutoria always makes sure
that he gets whatever he wants.
I'll turn this place around!
There's original Burma Teak here.
You'll get a good price for it.
That apart, there's...
What about the brick inside?
Will I get a price for that too?
No, sir.
The flooring inside is made of Italian marble.
- Oh.
- Extra profit!
I'll put it to good use.
It'll be a superhit!
Go get a coconut.
Why the hell are you stammering?
Which coconut, sir?
The one with water or--
Stop stammering, you fool.
Doesn't know anything!
Before any auspicious event, you need
to crack open a coconut.
That kind of a coconut.
Do you want me
to crack open your head instead?
- Sorry, sir.
- Go.
I'll get it right away!
Possession is the most important thing.
It's the nine points of law.
You know...
I'll make a beautiful shopping mall
on this plot.
Parking lot in the basement.
Groceries on the ground floor.
Level one will have clothing
and lingerie.
Level two will have jewellery
and fashion accessories.
Level three will have the food court.
And level four will be star studded!
Multiplexes, premiere shows, film stars...
It'll be a five-storey, five-star mall.
I've even thought of a name...
Five Star Plaza!
I'll talk to my numerologist
and finalise everything.
Sir, there's a five-star hotel called
"Sonar Bangla" or The Golden House.
You should name this "Bhooth Bangla",
or The Haunted House, after yourself!
Shut up!
Hail Lord Ganesha!
The fate of Chowdhury Palace is
in deep despair!
I'm ready to sacrifice my life again.
You can't give up your life twice!
Once it's out of the tube,
you can't squeeze it back in.
I've asked the architect
to begin work immediately.
This needs to be transformed
into the best mall in town.
There'll be a fountain here,
a fibre glass roof on top...
Bubble lifts, escalator,
central air conditioning...
It'll be a mini Singapore
in Calcutta!
You're going to build Singapore here...
Will the municipality just sit and watch?
Are you from the municipal corporation?
- We run the entire municipality!
- Oh...
This is our responsibility
towards society.
So what do I have to do?
Pay up.
Can't let you enjoy it all
by yourself now, can we?
The revolutionary poet
Kazi Nazrul Islam wrote...
"Give and take at the same time,
don't walk away from it".
You'll "give", we'll "take"...
We'll be in it together.
Or else, I won't go away.
How much do I have to pay?
One...hard cash.
Can't we negotiate?
Sik-Sik--
What the hell do you mean, sick?
Sixty-five thousand?
What's your name?
My name...
Gu-Gu-Gu...
Gu... What?
My name is T. K. Guchait.
Do you think I'm a beggar?
Do you know who I am?
With a single phone call,
I can start a curfew in town!
Always remember, I am Pod Podhan.
Your name is Pod?
Hey!
Not Pod... It's Promod.
Oh, Parmod.
Nice name.
Don't mess with him.
I might have a minor speech problem
but I'm quite cultured otherwise.
In fact, I'd written a poem
in high school.
"There's tremendous rain,
That's why be patient
East Bengal has Poshanto,
Mohan Bagan has Poshun"
- These days, he writes highbred poetry.
- Don't think he is an idiot.
Not at all...
He's got the attitude
of a rebel, too.
His demand must be kept.
You people cannot
threaten my client like this.
Shut up!
You're trying to show off
in that stupid black coat of yours, huh?
I hang out with your boss from the High Court.
We drink together.
He's going to receive the ticket
in the next elections, right?
Hey! I'm being very clear.
One crore, hard cash.
Otherwise, get lost.
Please consider my plea, sir.
One crore is a little too much.
It's not just for myself.
Different political parties...
The ruling party, the opposition...
All them them
have a share in it.
As Tagore wrote...
"We are there for other's sake
and they are there for ours".
In other words...
United we stand,
divided we misunderstand!
But so much money...
All at one go!
Take your time.
I'm giving you seven days.
Get the cash together.
You can forget about this project
if you don't pay up by then.
Remember my name.
"Pod Podhan".
Let's go.
You better remember his words!
There's a twist
in the tale.
Nothing of the sort.
That bloody promoter is filthy rich.
To him, one crore is dirt!
He might be rich.
But he'll negotiate till his last breath.
After all, he's a businessman.
So, we have some time
and a window of opportunity.
We can't just sit idle.
Biplab would have figured
out a guerilla warfare plan.
Where is he?
He has a lot of sympathy
for poor people like us.
He's in South India...
working with revolutionaries
on improvised explosives.
But I can fill in for him!
Listen, son.
It's very easy to wear a Che Guevara shirt
and talk about a proxy war.
- You know, in the year--
- Excuse me.
First of all, this shirt is mine.
Second, you're mispronouncing the name
of the guy printed on it.
- And third--
- Friends, let's not fight amonsgt ourselves.
Now we need a master plan.
- Let's listen to the army man.
- Thank you, sir.
In the year 1971,
during the Bangladesh War...
General Yahia...
Oh, no, not again!
No more nostalgia.
Okay, okay.
In any combat,
the first stage is intelligence gathering.
Covert survey.
We have to find out the strengths
and weaknesses of the opponent.
Then, half the battle is won.
Oh God, who's going to do that?
We can't use Khaja for that.
You fool!
What?
I have acted in a few local plays...
with social or historical themes...
"Really, Seleucus,
what a diverse country!"
Lucida Grande
Wait.
I don't think anybody can act better
than me here.
All of your talents will be put
to use in good time.
But at the moment, we need the cooperation
of Lt. Pablo Patranobis and Capt. Koyel Dhar.
Don't mind my words, young man.
In times of war, the commander needs
to be harsh when required.
Okay, Commander.
What can we do for you?
Not much...
You gus are
about to get married.
- What!
- Huh?
What you do in reality
is entirely your business.
You'll go to Bhutoria's office...
as a soon-to-be-married couple.
You'll pretend to be looking
for an apartment.
Your mission is to extract vital information
from Bhutoria's sidekick about his boss.
Bhutoria treats Guchait really badly.
That's why, deep inside,
he has a raging anger for his boss.
Besides, he wears all kinds of rings,
which means he's insecure.
These weaknesses need
to be exploited to get information.
We're looking for a nice apartment...
- Around 800 square feet.
- Yeah.
In South Calcutta.
South-facing, with two bedrooms.
We just saw an advertisement...
Golden Greens.
If you book now,
you'll get a special rebate.
Check this out.
Lots of greenery...
Amazing scenic beauty!
You can also see this water body
from the balcony.
Both sides are south-facing.
We also arrange for bank loans.
Can we see the site sometime?
Any day.
How about today?
No, not today.
It won't take very long.
We'll also arrange
for a vehicle.
No, today won't work.
Today we have
to visit Saint Bhooth Nath.
He's not available very often, you know.
Thank God he's here right now.
He's in Calcutta just
for three days.
Who is Saint Bhooth Nath?
A famous astrologer?
- Are you serious?
- Not just an astrologer...
He has the past, present
and the future at his fingertips!
Barrack Obama had called for him.
He refused to go.
He has no interest
in such worldly matters.
Sir...
Will you please introuce me
to Saint Bhooth Nath?
I'm going through
a really bad time.
There's peace neither at home
nor at office.
I've tried all the amulets available
for good luck.
But nothing worked.
Please see what you can do.
But the saint does not
meet people easily.
Ma'am, please do something.
My life has become unbearable.
I'll end up committing suicide.
Our group will get stronger!
Sorry?
I was just saying
that he can't say no to Koyel.
Ma'am, please help me.
I'll get you the apartment
at a minium rate.
Since you're insisting...
But if you bring up money,
he will get very angry.
Praise the Lord!
(chanting)
I had spoken to you
about him.
He's in great distress.
Please help him.
Full moon, half moon, solutions and problems!
(speaks gibberish)
Sir, have mercy on me.
Women and wealth, digestives or not...
(continues gbberish)
Your life and death
are now in my hands.
Let me hear
about your troubles.
- My trouble is my boss.
- Boss?
He is always humiliating me.
We have fix him, right?
He's really wicked.
He needs to be taught a lesson.
Is that so?
Let's hear about his deeds.
He has committed horrible crimes.
He even burnt his wife
to death!
She lived up
to her name, Laxmi.
Really?
After getting information
about Bhutoria's past...
The master plan was drawn up.
Unfortunately, people aren't scared
of ghosts like they used to be.
They would have to catch
people alone at night.
They were all very charged up!
The most vital thing now
is finding contacts.
There's a social networking site
for ghosts, Spookbook!
- We can get contacts from there.
- Spookbook!
There's really a website
like that?
- Yes.
- Its slogan is "the real friend of a ghost".
Good.
Let's see
if we can find a volunteer.
They found exactly
what they were looking for.
One-armed Kartik...
a terror in his locality.
He was a thug
for political parties.
He lost his arm
while making a crude bomb.
But that didn't curb his spirit.
He recently got bumped off
by a member of a rival group.
I'll have to put this here.
It's hurting me in the wrong place.
Whom do I have to
get ride of?
Fifty percent before the job
and fifty after the job.
Kartik dear...
We have risen
above violence.
We are in great trouble.
Help us out.
Want to throw out the tenants?
No problem. I have my ways.
No, we haven't called you
to torture anyone.
We have called you
to save us from torture.
You'll be rewarded for this.
Who's this cartoon?
Is he from a theatre group
or something?
Kartik, please...
We are in great trouble.
Okay, fine.
I can't turn down
a girl's request.
You will be blessed.
Khaja Khan is right.
So many helpless ghosts...
Where do we take shelter?
Blessed?
I'm almost drowning in sin.
The world is full
of traitors.
I taught that kid
how to use a knife.
I had no clue
when he turned on me.
So I went when he called for me
but he slit his own mentor's throat!
I'll honour you
with the Queen's Cross.
Who the hell are you?
Really, you are a weird bunch!
You just have to help us.
Okay, fine.
Like I said, I can't turn a lady down.
I always used to get my girl
whatever she wanted.
Everything, down to those
tight, low-waist jeans!
There's just one problem.
Everyone knows that you are dead.
Not at all!
Those jerks had hidden my body
in a septic tank.
Nobody knows
that I am dead.
Everybody thinks
that I've gone underground!
Good, you won't be suspected.
Just tell me
what I have to do.
You have to go
to Bhutoria's office.
Tomorrow.
Bhutoria?
Is he a ghost too?
No.
A promoter.
The owner of Magic Realty.
Hello?
I'm speaking on behalf
of Magic Realty.
Our office staff is facing issues
with their hard disks.
No, we are unable
to save our files.
Boss has already asked twice!
But it's written
in the contract.
My God, what's wrong
with this man?
Please send someone immediately.
How strange...
Hi, babe,
I need to meet your boss.
Where are you from?
From far, far away.
Sir's in a meeting.
Can I take a message?
Whether you give your boss a message
or a kiss, is your call.
I have urgent business
wth him.
I just told you...
Sir is busy.
I don't care.
Tell him it's urgent.
Wait.
Hello?
Mr. Guchait, come here right now!
I don't have time to waste.
What's wrong?
He wants to meet sir urgently.
- Bhuto-Bhuto--
- Who's Bhuto, huh?
Bhuto-Bhutoria is busy.
Why don't you tell me?
Who are you, Johny?
I am T-T-T. K. Guchait.
You'll stop stammering
when you get punched in the nose!
Finalise it at 25 lakhs.
Hey, Bhuto!
Yeah.
Who is it?
Kartik.
It's important.
The problem is yours,
the solution is mine.
If you don't hear me out, it's your loss.
If you do, you profit.
Profit?
- Sit.
- Thank you.
What a coincidence!
Your name is Kartik
and my name is Ganesh.
Ganesh Bhutoria.
We are like the mythological brothers
Kartik and Ganesh.
Yes?
This guy is dangerous, sir.
Okay, okay.
What?
Did you get my character certficate?
You're famous!
You mean infamous.
Everybody is scared
of one-armed Kartik.
My hand got drilled
while trying to dodge a bullet.
I used to measure my targets
through the hole.
People started calling me
the "Hole Master".
And then I lost
my entire hand.
From the "Hole Master"
to "One-armed Kartik"!
Tell me what I can do for you.
I'll be the one
doing things for you!
But not for free.
It'll be a give and take.
What do you mean?
How much has Promod Prodhan asked for?
How do you know
that he has asked for money?
Let me guess,
One... right?
One... as in?
Why are you playing dumb, man?
What do you want?
Cut the crap...
I can make the settlement at 50 lakhs.
I will keep four percent.
You will be saving 48 lakhs.
Really?
One-armed Kartik never goes back
on his word.
My political connections are very high.
I know Promod Prodhan's father too.
You know his father too?
- Not his real father.
- Oh.
His godfather...
D. N. Chowdhury.
He's a real big shot!
You saved me, Kartik.
Thank you.
Mention not!
Make sure you're at Chowdhury Palace
with 50 lakhs.
At 10 o'clock.
If you are lucky,
you might meet some rich, foreign clients.
Rich, foreign clients?
Wipes his a**
on dollar bills!
They want to invest here.
My God!
Foreign investors?
Do you think I'm a
small-time guy?
Okay.
I'll leave in the morning
right after the religious cereremony.
By 10 o'clock.
Not in the morning.
Such deals can't be done
in the day time!
I meant 10 o'clock at night.
Make sure you're alone.
And bring the money.
Your sidekicks won't be allowed in.
The whole deal will be confidential.
All alone?
I mean, my chauffeur will be there.
You might be followed
if you come in your car.
I'll send you a rickshaw.
I'll have to go in a rickshaw?
Won't it be risky?
You'll be carrying
a lot of money.
With Atmaram around,
there'll be nothing to worry about.
Atmaram?
The rickshaw puller.
Trustworthy man.
He'll make sure you reach safely.
He's here.
Very good.
It's all set.
D. N. Chowdhury?
Everything's ready as planned.
He's upstairs.
Come.
- Got the cash?
- All of it.
And the foreign client?
Everyone's here.
- I've arranged for some entertainment.
- That's great!
And Bengalis celebrate so many festivals!
Should I take off my shoes?
There are different ways of doing things here.
Just come along.
Okay.
(song playing)
Come, come.
Wow!
Is this a business meeting
or a party?
They are all VIPs.
We have to entertain them.
Meet D. N. Chowdhury.
And you are?
Go on.
Sir Richmond, from London.
Hello.
Please be seated.
Have a drink.
Sir?
Alcohol?
Foreign liquor!
Tell me what you'll have.
I don't drink.
Is he serious?
And to think
I made so many arrangements.
Sir, what is the name
of your company?
East India Company.
Indian company?
Famous company.
It's bought over
almost the entire country!
How much are you paying
for this house?
About 10 crores.
My entire land would be worth...
- about five thousand--
- Crores!
Five thousand crores!
- Right?
- Yes, yes.
Land?
Tea estate.
Big shot!
So, you don't like alcohol.
But you like chicks I hope.
Chicks?
As in, ladies?
She is from a ladies bar.
What a babe!
Her curves are
to die for!
Like the Bollywood actress
Shilpa Shetty?
This one's just shifted base
from Bollywood.
Yours for the entire night.
You want a little trailer
before the real film begins?
Trailer?
Hey, Shiuli!
My body was on fire
Waiting for you
Come to me, my love
Leave the world behind
Light my body on fire
Boy you are a big traitor
My heart keeps beating
My body keeps burning
Boy you are a big traitor
You are a big traitor
Hey, pal!
The trailer's so hot!
I'm sure the movie will be a hit.
Can't just keep watching it.
You have to pay.
I'll pay for sure.
My beauty turned to ashes
I was on fire
The unbearable flames
Took my breath away
Boy you are a big traitor
You are a big traitor
Look at the babe
She's on fire, fire, fire
She's burning with desire
She got, she got, she got
the fire inside her
She's gonna, she's gonna
set this place on fire
Yo!
Yeah
You hurt me more than you heal me
Why do you torment me?
I won't let you go
Beware of me darling
Boy you are a big traitor
You are a big traitor
Lift your veil girl,
let me see your face!
You killed me with your fire
You should face consequences dire
A**hole!
Laxmi?
You?
- But you were...
- I was dead, right?
You jerk!
You burnt me to death
for dowry.
Do you remember that,
you bastard?
My God!
I'm going to die!
I kept screaming
and shouting...
Crying and begging...
- Now you will scream and shout!
- The show isn't over my friend.
I'm your husband!
Please don't kill me.
Don't listen to him.
That's sentimental bulls**t!
Here...
Keep all the money.
I don't want the house
or anything else.
My God!
He's worse than me!
Bribing a ghost!
I'm sure he'll do the same
with God.
How about this...
I'll pour whisky over him
while you light the fire.
I must have sinned
in my past life.
Now I have to spend the rest
of my life with these ghosts!
Hey, one minute.
Put it out.
- Let the idiot go.
- What?
Let him go?
Why?
It's because of this jerk
that my raging spirit still roams about.
I'll take of that your rage, sweetheart.
But get this...
If we kill him,
he'll join us here.
- Oh my God!
- Yeah.
He has lost a lot of money.
He'll die of a heart attack anyway.
Then he'll go straight to hell.
There'll be no disturbance here.
Get lost!
I've spared you.
And listen up!
If I see you
around this house again...
I'll strangle you!
Run!
Go!
Hey!
Leave this.
- Jerk.
- Get lost.
The idiot was trying to buy
off Chowdhury Palace!
Oh God!
Dear Lord!
Finally, the ghosts stood up
for themselves.
History was created
at Chowdhury Palace.
The history of how these helpless ghosts
turned the situation around.
Atmaram, let's go.
Hurry up!
Where do you want to go?
Up above, huh?
He's a ghost too!
Never come back!
They got in touch
with Laxmi through Spookbook.
She was sorrowfully roaming about
after being cruelly burnt to death.
She instantly agreed.
But there was trouble
with the hot dance number.
Laxmi was a homely girl,
she wasn't used to being flirtatious.
Kadalibala!
Exactly!
Under her guidance,
Laxmi got pretty good at it.
But the lyrics were written
by Laxmi herself.
Yes.
At first, the lyrics seem to be full
of sexual innuendos.
But then you realise
that the words are literal, not metaphorical.
"Light my body
on fire".
That's exactly
how she was killed.
Now, tell me...
How did you like my story?
It's fantastic.
No doubt about that.
Has a lot of drama, suspense,
comic relief...
There's a crisis
and a resolution.
And there's a hot
dance number.
But there's a problem.
The basic story line is a little weird,
bordering on the Absurd.
It might be a little difficult
to pitch it to the producer.
Hang on.
Do you know
what these are?
Take a look
at them.
They're old coins
of the East India Company.
Antique!
Not just antique,
they're priceless too.
These will come handy
to start your film.
Keep these with you.
The rest of the money can
also be organised.
Hold on a minute...
Who exactly are you?
You gave me a story
for a film...
And now you are arranging
for money!
I've been listening to your story
all this while but didn't get your name.
Oh--
I'm Ayan Sengupta.
I was a Physics professor.
In the 1970s, I had lost faith
in parliamentary democracy...
And joined extreme Left politics.
The party went underground
and so did I.
I used to work
out of town.
One day, I had gone home
to visit my ailing mother.
The police was looking for me.
They put me behind bars.
Then began their
"third degree" treatment.
But I was adamant.
I didn't give out the names
of my comrades.
At last...
in the middle
of the night...
They took me to a field
and said...
"Go.
We are letting you go."
Run!
As I began running
they shot me from behind.
The state goons anounced...
"Encounter death".
You are...
My name is Biplab.
Biplab Dasgupta.
Biplab Dasgupta!
Yes.
I was the one who was murdered
in the revolution of the Seventies.
What?
What nonsense!
I agree that you have acted well.
But the plot is not convincing.
You don't believe me, right?
No.
Very well.
Curtain call!
Yes, Sumit?
Sorry, I had dozed off...
Yes, I'll come down.
You seem to be having a great time!
Taking naps and stuff.
I, on the other hand,
got screwed.
I just dozed off
for a bit, that's all.
But your delay was a blessing
in disguise.
Why are you talking
in riddles?
What do you mean?
I got a fantastic plot
for my feature film in a dream.
You must be smoking
way too much...
Getting plot ideas
in your dreams!
I was very tensed.
I have a meeting
with a producer tomorrow.
The story was just not working.
Whatever.
Get in touch
with Guinness Book.
They will fund you...
The first ever film
to be conceived in a dream.
Can I bum a smoke?
What's wrong?
Give me a cigarette.
What's this?
Wait a minute.
00:00:00,-41 --> 01:56:16,250
THREE MONTHS LATER
Won't there be
an opening ceremony?
The director's an atheist.
Doesn't believe in God, rituals or ghosts.
But he's named his film
"The Future of the Ghosts"!
He says that these ceremonies
are a waste of time.
It's been two hours
and we haven't yet started.
The director's very finicky.
A perfectionist.
Ayan, get going, bro.
- Rinka, shall we go?
- Yup.
- Sumit, are we ready?
- Yes, let's go.
- Yup, okay, wonderful.
- Silence!
- Roll sound.
- Fans off.
Rolling.
Clapping frame.
THE FUTURE OF THE PAST
Camera.
Rolling.
"The Future of the Past".
shot by 1 by 1 by 1.
Clap!
Action!
Let's go.
Cut.